# Workshop Week 10 - More Text Analytics
In this workshop you will conduct several text analytics in Python using nltk sklearn and others. Before you do these exercises it is useful that you have completed the exercises from weeks 8 and 9 since we will build on them. As in last week, we will use Kaggle's movie reviews data set:

* https://www.kaggle.com/c/sentiment-analysis-on-movie-reviews/data
* [train.tsv.zip](train.tsv.zip) (local copy)
* [test.tsv.zip](test.tsv.zip) (local copy)

## 1. Vectorise the training and the test data (15 minutes + 10 minutes discussion)

Perform the following tasks:

1. Load the train and test data into two separate pandas frames. Answer the following questions.

   1.1 What column contains the review text?

   1.2 What column contains the review rating?

   1.3 How many different ratings are there?

2. Create an instance of sklearn's `TfidfVectorizer`. Fit it with the reviews text from the training data, and obtain the tf.idf vectors of these reviews texts.

3. Using the instance of `TfidfVectorizer` created above, obtain the tf.idf vectors of the reviews texts of the test data.


## 2. Conduct cluster analysis (30 minutes + 10 minutes discussion)

Conduct cluster analysis by performing the following tasks:

1. Cluster the training data (use their tf.idf vectors) using sklearn's `KMeans` clustering methods. For this exercise, create 10 clusters. Answer the following questions.

   2.1 How many reviews fall into each cluster?

   2.2 What are the key words in each cluster? To answer this question, display the word clouds of the documents from each cluster.

2. Given the clusters from the training data, predict the cluster labels of the test data. Answer the same questions as above.

## 3. Conduct topic modelling on the test data (30 minutes + 10 minutes discussion)

Conduct topic modelling by performing the following tasks. For these tasks we will use the test data, not the training data, because the test data are smaller and you may have problems if your computer does not have large memory.

1. Use sklearn's `LatentDirichletAllocation` with 10 topics and visualise the result using pyLDAvis. Answer the following questions. To answer the questions you may need to look at the documentation at sklearn ().

   3.1 Do the reviews typically focus on one topic only, or on several?

   3.2 Are the topics detected reasonable?

2. Try different numbers of topics and determine a reasonably good number of topics cased on the possible overlaps between topics and how well the key words of each topic identify natural topics.

# Optional Exercises

## A. Predict the movie sentiment

Optionally, use the training data to train a statistical classifier. Try, for example, the same classifiers that you tried in the workshop of week 8. Then, test the quality of each classifier using the test data. Which classifier was best?

For more inspiration, feel free to see the kaggle notebooks related to this data set. Some of them use state of the art classification systems using deep learning: 

* https://www.kaggle.com/c/sentiment-analysis-on-movie-reviews/notebooks


